.TH RESIZE 1 "February 2026" "resize 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
resize \- resize images to social-media-friendly dimensions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B resize
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIPATH\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B resize
scans a directory for image files and resizes any with a longest side
greater than 1200 pixels, maintaining the original aspect ratio. Images
already 1200px or smaller are saved without resizing. All images are
processed in parallel across CPU cores for speed. Original files are
never modified.
.PP
Resized images are saved to a
.B resized/
subdirectory inside the target path.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I PATH
Directory containing images to resize. Defaults to the current directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format. Possible values:
.BR png " (default), " webp ", " jpg ", " bmp ", " gif ", " tiff ", " avif .
.TP
.BR \-h
Print short help summary.
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Print detailed help with examples.
.SH SUPPORTED INPUT FORMATS
PNG (.png), JPEG (.jpg, .jpeg), WebP (.webp), BMP (.bmp),
GIF (.gif), TIFF (.tiff, .tif), AVIF (.avif).
.SH OUTPUT FORMATS
png (default), webp, jpg, bmp, gif, tiff, avif.
.SH EXAMPLES
Resize all images in the current directory to PNG:
.PP
.RS
.B resize
.RE
.PP
Resize images in a specific folder:
.PP
.RS
.B resize /home/user/Photos
.RE
.PP
Output as WebP (smaller files, great for uploading):
.PP
.RS
.B resize \-f webp
.RE
.PP
Output as JPG from a specific directory:
.PP
.RS
.B resize \-f jpg /home/user/Photos
.RE
.SH HOW IT WORKS
.IP 1. 3
Reads all supported image files from the given directory
.IP 2. 3
Resizes images with longest side > 1200px using the Lanczos3 filter
.IP 3. 3
Saves results to a \fBresized/\fR subdirectory
.IP 4. 3
Original files are never touched
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error (invalid directory, permission denied, etc.).
.SH QUICK START
Open your file manager, navigate to a folder with images,
right-click and select "Open in Terminal", then type:
.B resize
.PP
On Windows, open File Explorer, click the address bar,
type
.B cmd
and press Enter, then type:
.B resize
.SH AUTHOR
Nestor Wheelock
.SH LICENSE
GPL-3.0-or-later
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR convert (1),
.BR mogrify (1)
.SH HOMEPAGE
https://github.com/nestorwheelock/resize
